If you are running a competition in social media, you must draw up some Terms and Conditions to communicate the rules of your promotion. As soon as you ask people to  ‘enter for a chance to win’ you will be running a  ‘legally regulated competition’.

Your Terms must include things like who is eligible, what the prize consists of, the time frame for the contest, and how will winners be chosen. Not only will this cover your back, but whenever you have users asking you questions about the competition you can direct them straight to the T&Cs on your website.

You must communicate the Terms and Conditions of your competition at some point during the course of the promotion, and it’s recommended that you do this at the beginning. The best way is to display them is to add them to a page on your website, so that you can easily link back and refer to them.

If you are looking for some more tips, then take a look at our blog post guide to running a successful social media competition.

 

Our Social Media Terms and Condition Template was updated in January 2022, following our Beware of Instagram giveaway scammers with fake accounts blog.

 

Social Media Terms and Conditions Template
Here’s a good template for standard ‘T&C’s’ that you can use for your competition…

1- The promoter is: [……………… Ltd (company no. …………..)] whose registered office is at [……………………………………………………..].

2- The competition is open to residents of the United Kingdom aged X years or over except employees of […………………………………………] and their close relatives and anyone otherwise connected with the organisation or judging of the competition.

3- There is no entry fee and no purchase necessary to enter this competition.

4- By entering this competition, an entrant is indicating his/her agreement to be bound by these terms and conditions.

5- Route to entry for the competition and details of how to enter are via [http://…………………]
State which social media platforms you are running the competition on.

6- Only one entry will be accepted per person. Multiple entries from the same person will be disqualified.

7- Closing date for entry will be […………………………..]. After this date the no further entries to the competition will be permitted.

8- No responsibility can be accepted for entries not received for whatever reason.

9- The rules of the competition and how to enter are as follows:

 

Here write out in simplest form how you enter the competition.

10- The promoter reserves the right to cancel or amend the competition and these terms and conditions without notice in the event of a catastrophe, war, civil or military disturbance, act of God or any actual or anticipated breach of any applicable law or regulation or any other event outside of the promoter’s control. Any changes to the competition will be notified to entrants as soon as possible by the promoter.

11- The promoter is not responsible for inaccurate prize details supplied to any entrant by any third party connected with this competition.

12- The prize is as follows:

The prize is as stated and no cash or other alternatives will be offered.The prizes are not transferable. Prizes are subject to availability and we reserve the right to substitute any prize with another of equivalent value without giving notice.

13- Winners will be chosen: (delete as applicable)

[at random by software, from all entries received and verified by Promoter and or its agents.][as a result of a popular vote conducted via social media sites as measured and recorded and verified by Promoter and or its agents].

[by an independent adjudicator or panel of judges appointed by the Promoter].

[by […………………………..]

14- The winner will be notified by email and/or DM on Twitter/Facebook and/or letter within 28 days of the closing date. The winner will only ever be contacted by […………………]. If the winner cannot be contacted or do not claim the prize within 14 days of notification, we reserve the right to withdraw the prize from the winner and pick a replacement winner. 

15- The promoter will notify the winner when and where the prize can be collected / is delivered.

16- The promoter’s decision in respect of all matters to do with the competition will be final and no correspondence will be entered into.

17- By entering this competition, an entrant is indicating his/her agreement to be bound by these terms and conditions.

18- The competition and these terms and conditions will be governed by [English] law and any disputes will be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of [England].

19- The winner agrees to the use of his/her name and image in any publicity material, as well as their entry. Any personal data relating to the winner or any other entrants will be used solely in accordance with current [UK] data protection legislation and will not be disclosed to a third party without the entrant’s prior consent.

20- The winner’s name will be available 28 days after closing date by emailing the following address: [……………………………]

21- Entry into the competition will be deemed as acceptance of these terms and conditions.

22- This promotion is in no way sponsored, endorsed or administered by, or associated with, Facebook, Twitter or any other Social Network. You are providing your information to [……………..] and not to any other party. The information provided will be used in conjunction with the following Privacy Policy found at [http://…………………..].

 

Some additional Terms and Conditions which you might wish to include if relevant:

 

 [Company Name] will judge the competition and decide on the winner each week, which will be picked at random from all complete entries via Twitter.
[Company Name] ‘s decision as to those able to take part and selection of winners is final. No correspondence relating to the competition will be entered into.
The entrant must be following @CompanyName on Twitter in order to enter.
[Company Name] shall have the right, at its sole discretion and at any time, to change or modify these terms and conditions, such change shall be effective immediately upon posting to this webpage.
[Company Name] also reserves the right to cancel the competition if circumstances arise outside of its control.